Let's talk about using comparator and the comparable interfaces, I guess the first question that comes
to mind is why two interfaces to compare objects?
Comparable implementations are meant to provide something called natural order for sorting and a natural
comparison method when comparing one object with another.
Natural order is a numerical order for numbers, alphabetical for strings or chronological order for
dates.
For example, the comparator interface is used to sort in other ways than the natural order if a class
implements comparable or sword objects that don't implement comparable at all.
I'll talk about the differences between these two interfaces in a bit.
But for now, let's first look at the comparable interface.
When you compare two numbers, you know what it means for one number to be greater than another number
10 is larger than one.
For example, you assume numbers are naturally ordered, starting with the lowest to highest.
When there is a natural order, you implement the comparable interface, which has a compare to method,
which returns an integer representing how an object passed to the compare to method compared to the
current object.
The Javadoc lame duck comparable in the face declaration is shown below, you can see public interface
comparable to your brackets after curly prices.
And then we've got a public event compare to passing T as a parameter.
When you compare to objects that are equal, the result should be an integer of zero.
A negative result means the current object is less than the arguments object, and a positive result
means the current object is greater than the arguments object.
So let's look at an example back in code, need a new class in our collections project because one comparable
example.
So this Kadhem creating two classes, firstly, Class Mattock implements the compatible interface,
topping it with its own top is, say, smart talking angle brackets.
This class has a field called Don't type of Top Dog Top, which is an enum defined down here.
Moving back up to the smattered class constructor that takes a dog top and looking back at it again,
this is a nested item which contains the doctor with an attribute smart level that represents the ranks
of the smartest dog from one to five, where one is the smartest dog.
Go back up to our code again.
We've also got the requisite compared to method.
That's of course, because we're implementing comparable it compared to method compared to the dog types
using the smart level attribute.
They can see the code for that starting on line twenty four.
Most are putting out the comparison because I got a two string method there that simply prints out the
string value of the dog type in.
Both got our comparable example class with a main method, the main method is creating a three set of
smart dog objects.
Remember, that tree set is ordered by its natural order to be the smartest dog's first ever code also
then prints out the tracer.
So let's run this code.
So not that the construction of the Trade Center is usually the capturable compared to method result,
you can see there is a sort of set of dogs.
Smartest, dumbest.
There are more requirements to writing a class that implements comparable, a couple of which are firstly
creating an equal method consistent with the compare to method between zero and the objects are equal
and also creating a hash code method.
Now, these details will not be part of the exam, so I'm not going to cover them here.
In general, a class will implement the comparable interface, specifying its natural ordering with
the compare to method, comparing an instance of itself with the argument of the compare to method.
In contrast, the copyrighter interface is usually implemented on an as needed basis and compares to
objects both passed as arguments.
The operator interface does not have to be part of the types published contract, i.e. it does not need
to declare an operator in the implements clause in its declaration.
You can see that the job, Utah dot com operator interfaces declared as follows.
We've got public interface, Co-operator Tinoco, Brackett's calibrations and we've got that compare
method with two objects, a path to it, and it returns in it.
So the compare method compares the two arguments past and is not dependent on an object instance in
the comparison ipass both objects.
You want to compare to the method which quite often is implemented with the lambda expression.
In addition to the abstract compar method, the comparator interface provides both static and default
methods to assist with various sorting mechanisms.
Static methods are listed in this table on screen.
Let's see if we've got a static method comparing sip's a function that extracts a comparable sort key
from a type T, and the returns are comparable to the brackets that compares by that salkey comparing
double accepts a function that extracts a double salkey from a type T and again returns the comparative
to an angle brackets that compares by that salkey comparing it except the function that extracts.
And it's OK from a type T and returns the cooperative to an angle brackets that compares by that.
OK, comparing long skips a function that extracts a long salkey from a type T returns a comparator
tinoco brackets it appears.
Well that's OK.
Natural order returns a copywriter that compares comparable objects in natural order.
Those first returns are now friendly comparator that considers now to be less than nonono.
Those last returns are no friendly comparator that considers no to be greater than Nonno in reverse
order returns a comparator that imposes the reverse of the natural ordering.
And looking at the default methods they're listed in this table, we've got reversed returns, a comparator
that imposes the reverse ordering of this comparator we've got then comparing this method returns the
lexicographical order comparator with another operator or a function that extracts a comparable salkey,
then comparing double this method, electrico lexicographical or a comparator with a function that extracts
a double salkey.
Then comparing it turns the lexicographical order comparator with a function that extracts it.
It's OK.
And then comparing along returns a lexicographical order comparator with a function that extracts a
long salkey.
So I go back to our car, let's look at one more example before we in the video will create a new class
here.
We'll call this one comparator example.
This code consists of two classes we've got last night, comparator, which implements the interface
comparator string and angle brackets using generics, the campaign method looking at that.
This overrides the abstract compar method in Co-operator and will pass names and use the last string
in the name as the last name sorted by last name, then as second class copyrighter example, the main
method, you can see their way of creating string array of test data.
Remember here that you can sort a string array using a race that sort without a second argument.
It's an example of that online 49.
So if you run this.
You could say that a race, that sort.
But a second argument, thoughts using the natural order of the array past is the first argument in
this instance, the rights sorted alphabetically.
So let's see the video here and then the next one will use a list.
See you in the next video.